+++
title = "Rate Optimal Estimation for High Dimensional Spatial Covariance Matrices"
date = "2017-10-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Yi Li", "Adam Ding", "Jennifer Dy"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *International Conference on Multimedia and Expo Workshops (ICMEW)*, IEEE."
publication_short = "In *ACML*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Spatial covariance matrix estimation is of great significance in many applications in climatology, econometrics and many other fields with complex data structures involving spatial dependencies. High dimensionality brings new challenges to this problem, and no theoretical optimal estimator has been proved for the spatial high-dimensional covariance matrix. Over the past decade, the method of regularization has been introduced to high-dimensional covariance estimation for various structured matrices, to achieve rate optimal estimators. In this paper, we aim to bridge the gap in these two research areas. We use a structure of block bandable covariance matrices to incorporate spatial dependence information, and study rate optimal estimation of this type of structured high dimensional covariance matrices. A double tapering estimator is proposed, and is shown to achieve the asymptotic minimax error bound. Numerical studies on both synthetic and real data are conducted showing the improvement of the double tapering estimator over the sample covariance matrix estimator."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "http://www.acml-conf.org/2017/conference/accepted-papers/"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Link", url = "http://www.acml-conf.org/2017/conference/accepted-papers/"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
image =""
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

#More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
